New page: aria-expanded (#10175)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/accessibility/aria/attributes/aria-expanded/index.md

---
title: 'aria-expanded'
slug: Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-expanded
tags: 
  - Accessibility
  - ARIA
  - ARIA attribute
  - ARIA property
  - aria-expanded
---

> The `aria-expanded` attribute indicates whether a grouping element owned or controlled by the element on which it is set is expanded or collapsed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `aria-expanded` attribute indicates whether a grouping element owned or controlled by the element on which it is set is expanded or collapsed.
```

The tone feels weird here. What do you think about something like, "The `aria-expanded" attribute is set on an element to indicate if a control is expanded or collapsed, and whether or not its child elements are displayed or hidden."

## Description

There are several widgets that can be expanded and collapsed, including menus, dialogs, and accordian panels. Each of these objects, in turn, has an interactive element that controls their opening and closing. The `aria-expanded` attribute is applied to this focusable, interactive control that toggles the visibility of the object. 

> For example, `aria-expanded` is applied to the parent item in a DOM tree to indicate whether its child branch of the tree is shown. The parent controls the visibility of the associated child branch, as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, `aria-expanded` is applied to the parent item in a DOM tree to indicate whether its child branch is shown. The parent controls the visibility of the associated child branch, as well.
```

Which parent? Which child branch?

> There are two declarations that can be applied to objects that control the visibility of another object: `aria-controls` or `aria-owns` combined with `aria-expanded`. The `aria-controls` and `aria-owns` indicate the relationship between the controlling element and the controlled element while the `aria-expanded` indicates to assistive technology whether the controlled element is expanded or collapsed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two declarations that can be applied to objects that control the visibility of another object: `aria-controls`, or `aria-owns` combined with `aria-expanded`. The `aria-controls` and `aria-owns` indicate the relationship between the controlling element and the controlled element. The `aria-expanded` indicates to assistive technology whether the controlled element is expanded or collapsed. 
```

Note that [`aria-controls` has awful support](https://a11ysupport.io/tech/aria/aria-controls_attribute).

> When a grouping container that can be expanded or collapsed is not owned by the element that has the `aria-expanded` attribute, identify the controlling relationship by referencing the container from the element that has `aria-expanded` with the `aria-controls` property. If it is owned, use the `aria-owns` property.

Reviewer: Can we rephrase the first sentence to use the active tone?

> A button that opens a widget will have `aria-controls` set to the `id` of the widget and `aria-expanded` set to the current state of the widget.

Reviewer: "will" implies a "because of" here. I'm also a little confused which widget is being referenced with this isolated sentence.

```html

> <button aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="widget1" aria-label="Open widget 1">Show widget</button>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<button aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="widget1">Show widget</button>
```

```

> When the widget is visible, the controlling object relays that information via having `aria-expanded="true"` set on it. The accessible name of the controlling object should reflect this change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

When the widget is visible, the controlling object relays that information via having `aria-expanded="true"` set on it. The accessible name of the controlling object should reflect this change.
```

```html
<button aria-expanded="true" aria-controls="widget1">Hide widget</button>
```

> A parent [`menuitem`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/roles/menuitem_role) has `aria-expanded` set to false when its child menu is not visible, and set to `true` when the child menu is visible. When a menu is displayed, the button object that toggles the visibility of that menu has `aria-expanded="true"` set. When the menu is hidden, aria-expanded can be omitted. If specified when the menu is hidden, it should be set as `aria-expanded="false"`.

Reviewer: What's the origin of this `menu`/`menuitem` paragraph? Saying this because menus like this are nearly never applicable on the web, and are often misused.

> By default, some roles are hidden or collapsed and other roles are open or expanded by default. Elements with role [`combobox`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/roles/combobox_role) have a default value for `aria-expanded` of `false`. When a combobox popup is not visible, the element with role `combobox` has `aria-expanded` set to `false`. This is the default state. When the popup element is visible, `aria-expanded` should be set to `true`.

Reviewer: This feels like it could use a subhead, and/or be moved higher up with part of the overall description.

```html
<label for="username">Username</label>
<input id="username" name="username" aria-describedby="username-desc">
<button aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="username-desc" aria-label="Help about username">
  <span aria-hidden="true">?</span>
</button>
<p id="username-desc" hidden>
  Your username is the name that you use to log in to this service.
</p>
```

> > **Note:** Do not include the `aria-expanded` attribute on elements that don't control the expanded state of other elements because the presence of the attribute indicates control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The presence of the `aria-expanded` attribute indicates control. Avoid including it on elements that do not control the expanded state of other elements.
```

Active tone, and removing the use of "Don't, do not" in the same sentence.

> Each element with role `treeitem` that serves as a parent node has `aria-expanded="false"` when the node is in a closed state and `aria-expanded="true"`when the node is in an open state. End nodes should not have the `aria-expanded` attribute because, if they were to have it, they would be incorrectly described to assistive technologies as parent nodes.

Reviewer: Are these `aria-expanded` roles implicit? Or do they need to be specifically declared?

Reviewer: What is an end node in this context? The last node in a sequential list, or the deepest node in a tree that contains no children?

> In a table or grid, a row that can be expanded or collapsed to show or hide a set of child rows is a parent row. Each parent row has the `aria-expanded` state set on either the row element or on a cell contained in the row. When the child rows are hidden The `aria-expanded="false"` is set. `aria-expanded="true"` is set when the child rows are displayed. Rows that do not control the display of child rows should not include the `aria-expanded` attribute at all because including the attribute defines the rows as parent rows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A parent row is a row that can be expanded or collapsed to show or hide a set of child rows in a table or grid. Each parent row has the `aria-expanded` state set on either the row element or on a cell contained in the row. When the child rows are hidden, `aria-expanded="false"` is set. `aria-expanded="true"` is set when the child rows are displayed. Rows that do not control the display of child rows should not include the `aria-expanded` attribute at all because including the attribute defines the rows as parent rows.
```

I think we need to clarify that the author needs to be setting these things. Right now it could be read as implicit.

```html
<button aria-expanded="true" aria-controls="widget1">Hide widget</button>
```

### Menu

When a [`menu`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/Menu_role) is displayed, the button object that toggles the visibility of that menu has `aria-expanded="true"` set. When the menu is hidden, aria-expanded can be omitted. If specified when the menu is hidden, it should be set as `aria-expanded="false"`. When a child menu is not visible, its parent [`menuitem`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/menuitem_role) has `aria-expanded`. It should be set to `true` when the child menu is visible. 

### Combobox

By default, some roles are hidden or collapsed and other roles are open or expanded by default. Elements with role [`combobox`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/Combobox_role) have a default value for `aria-expanded` of `false`. When a combobox popup is not visible, the element with role `combobox` has `aria-expanded` set to `false`. This is the default state. When the popup element is visible, `aria-expanded` should be set to `true`.

```html
<label for="username">Username</label>
<input id="username" name="username" aria-describedby="username-desc">

> <button aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="username-desc" aria-label="Help about username">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<button aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="username-desc" aria-label="Help about username" type="button">
```

For example, `aria-expanded` is applied to a parent treeitem to indicate whether its child branch of the tree is shown and to the accordion header that controls the visibility of the associated accordion pane.

There are two attributes applied to objects that control the visibility of another object: `aria-controls` or `aria-owns` and  `aria-expanded`. The `aria-controls` and `aria-owns` indicate the relationship between the controlling element and the controled element while the `aria-expanded` indicates to assistive technology whether the controlled element is expanded or collapsed.

When a grouping container that can be expanded or collapsed is not owned by the element that has the `aria-expanded` attribute, identify the controlling relationship by referencing the container from the element that has `aria-expanded` with the `aria-controls` property. If it is owned, use the `aria-owns` property.

A button that opens a widget will have `aria-controls` set to the `id` of the widget and `aria-expanded` set to the current state of the widget.

```html
<button aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="widget1" aria-label="Open widget 1">Show widget</button>

> ```
> When the widget is visible, the controlling object relays that information via having `aria-expanded="true"` set. The accessible name of the controlling object should reflect the change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

When the widget is visible, the controlling object relays that information via having `aria-expanded="true"` set on it. The accessible name of the controlling object should reflect this change.
```

```html

> <button aria-expanded="true" aria-controls="widget1" aria-label="Close widget 1">Hide widget</button>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<button aria-expanded="true" aria-controls="widget1">Hide widget</button>
```

```

> A parent [`menuitem`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/roles/menuitem_role) has `aria-expanded` set to false when its child menu is not visible and set to true when the child menu is visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A parent [`menuitem`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/roles/menuitem_role) has `aria-expanded` set to false when its child menu is not visible, and set to `true` when the child menu is visible.
```

By default, some roles are hidden or collapsed and other roles are open or expanded by default. Elements with role [`combobox`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/roles/combobox_role) have a default value for `aria-expanded` of `false`. When a combobox popup is not visible, the element with role `combobox` has `aria-expanded` set to `false`. This is the default state. When the popup element is visible, `aria-expanded` should be set to `true`.

```html
<label for="username">Username</label>
<input id="username" name="username" aria-describedby="username-desc">

> <button aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="username-desc" aria-label="Help about username">?</button>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<button aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="username-desc" aria-label="Help about username"><span aria-hidden="true">?</span></button>
```
